HTTP 1.1

The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997.
Because it went through several stages of development,
this first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1. This version is still in use on the web .
The HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a data communications protocol and acts as 
the foundation of the World Wide Web
After the original version was released.
the functionality was extended in HTTP/1.0,and overall, it was made more versatile.
Protocol/version specification.

Advantages of Http 1.1

It is a generic, stateless protocol that can be used for many tasks beyond its use for hypertext
such as name servers and distributed object management systems,
Through extension of its request methods error codes, and headers.
HTTP 1 was officially introduced and recognized in x`1996 .
The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997.
Because it went through several stages of development,
This first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1 .
This version is still in use on the web.

Disadvantages of Http 1.1

Did not have built-in support for header compression, so headers were sent in plain text,
which meant that they took up a significant amount of bandwidth.
As a result, while sending large numbers of headers or when sending headers over slow connections
This are the problems were faceFacing.

Http/2

HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of 
Data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource
In 2015, a new version of HTTP called HTTP/2 was created
HTTP/2 solves several problems that the creators of HTTP/1.1 did not anticipate.
In particular, HTTP/2 is much faster and more efficient than HTTP/1.1
One of the ways in which HTTP/2 is faster is in how it prioritizes content during the loading process

Advantages of Http/2

HTTP/2 reduces the time it takes to load websites thanks to the adoption of the following measures
HTTP/2 maintains the TCP connection for as long as the user stays on the page
The browser can send multiple requests to the server at the same time. Prioritization is also possible
Server push allows the server to send the requested files to the browser before it has finished parsing the HTML 
Before the browser determines that it needs additional images or scripts.
HTTP/2 makes web pages load faster and more efficiently by streamlining communication between the browser and server

DisAdvantages of Http/2

Caching of resources at the client side is a challenge as client does not have control over resources
pushed by the server.
HTTP/2 protocol is improvement to existing HTTP/1.1 protocol but it is not fully backward compatible to HTTP/1.1.
Hence it may not interoperate with some of the existing systems.
HTTP/2 protocol is at growing stage 
Hence it may not be supported by some of the browsers and web servers.